RESEARCH SCHOOL OF FINANCE, ACTUARIAL STUDIES AND APPLIED STATISTICS
Graphical Data Analysis
Tutorial 8

1. Hyde Park is a racially integrated neighbourhood of Chicago which is
located about seven miles south of the city centre on the shores of
Lake Michigan.  Approximately 50,000 people live in Hyde Park which is
surrounded on three sides by ghettos.  The University of Chicago which
is located in Hyde Park makes a considerable effort to preserve the
security (through employing the largest private police force in the
USA) and socio-economic profile of the neighbourhood.  These efforts
notwithstanding, there is a high crime rate in the area.  As part of
research into crime prevention, Reed (1978) collected data on the
reported number of purse snatchings in Hyde Park between January 1968
and September 1973, and this data is contained in an R object
called snatch.  The observations are the reported number of purse
snatchings on each twenty-eighth day. (Note that this study has used a
sampling scheme to obtain observations which are equally-spaced in
time; an accumulation scheme would yield monthly totals.) Analyze this
series.

2.  The Annual report of the Australian Tobacco Board (1989) contains
data on the annual duty paid clearances of Australian cigarettes and
tobacco in 106kg of product weight from 1964-65 to 1988-89.  The data
are store in a time series object called cig.  Analyse the components
of this series.

